DSA(Data Structures and Algorithms):
	It is an efficient way to store and organise the data.There are different Structures are there like  arrays ,lists ,trees , 
graphs etc.. Based on need and requirement we can use any of them.It is depend on multiple factors like cost,performance etc..

How to approch a problem.
1)Read the problem
2)Analyze a problem
3)Think of the solution
4)Pendown the solution
  Different ways to follow:
   i.Algorithm
   ii.FlowChart
   iii.PseudoCode
5)We can code the solution



Algorithm:
The word Algorithm means   ” A set of finite rules or instructions to be followed in calculations or other problem-solving operations ”.

Use of Algorithm:
1.Computer Science
2.Mathematics
3.Operations Research
4.Artificial Intelligence
5.Data Science

"Algorithms can be simple and complex depending on what you want to achieve".

Need of the Algorithms:
Algorithms are necessary for solving complex problems efficiently.
They help to automate process and make more reliable,faster and easier to perform.
Algorithms also enable computers to perform tasks that would be difficult or impossible for humans to do manually.

Characteristics of an Algorithm:
1)clear and ambiguous.
2)well defined inputs.
3)well defined outputs.
4)Finiteness
5)Feasible
6)Language Dependent

Types of Algorithms:
1)Brute Force Algorithm
2)Recursive Algorithm
3)BackTracking Algorithm
4)Searching Algorithm
5)Sorting Algorithm
6)Hashing Algorithm
7)Divide and Conquer Algorithm
8)Greedy Algorithm
9)Dynamic Programming Algorithm
10)Randomized Algorithm

Advantages of Algorithms:
It is easy to understand.
An algorithm is a step-wise representation of a solution to a given problem.
In an Algorithm the problem is broken down into smaller pieces or steps hence, it is easier for the programmer to convert it into an actual program.

Disadvantages of Algorithms:
Writing an algorithm takes a long time so it is time-consuming.
Understanding complex logic through algorithms can be very difficult.
Branching and Looping statements are difficult to show in Algorithms.


FlowChart:
Flowchart is a graphical representation of an algorithm.It makes use of symbols which are connected among them to indicate the flow of information and processing. 


Basic Symbols used in Flowchart Designs

Terminal: The oval symbol indicates Start, Stop and Halt in a program’s logic flow. A pause/halt is generally used in a program logic under some error conditions. Terminal is the first and last symbols in the flowchart. 
 
Input/Output: A parallelogram denotes any function of input/output type. Program instructions that take input from input devices and display output on output devices are indicated with parallelogram in a flowchart. 
 
Processing: A box represents arithmetic instructions. All arithmetic processes such as adding, subtracting, multiplication and division are indicated by action or process symbol. 
 
Diamond symbol represents a decision point. Decision based operations such as yes/no question or true/false are indicated by diamond in flowchart. 
 
Connectors: Whenever flowchart becomes complex or it spreads over more than one page, it is useful to use connectors to avoid any confusions. It is represented by a circle. 

Flow lines: . Arrows represent the direction of flow of control and relationship among different symbols of flowchart. 

Advantages Of FlowChart
Flowcharts are a better way of communicating the logic of the system.
Flowcharts help in debugging process.
With the help of flowcharts programs can be easily analyzed.
It provides better documentation.
Easy to understand.
The flowchart can be reused for inconvenience in the future.
It helps to provide correct logic.

Disadvantages:
It is difficult to draw flowcharts for large and complex programs.
There is no standard to determine the amount of detail.
Difficult to design the flowcharts.
It is very difficult to modify the Flowchart.
Making a flowchart is costly.
It makes software processes low.
If changes are done in code, then the flowchart must be redrawn



